Contact
+923094445664 (Work)
www.linkedin.com/in/
shakirhussainshakir (LinkedIn)
myresume.cloud/shakir-hussain-
shakir (Portfolio)
Top Skills
Donor Reporting
Expert in Advising and Counseling
Well-Equipped with Administrative
Skills
Languages
English
Urdu
Certifications
Training of Trainers for Career
Advisors (2019)
Alumni Academy
Creative Problem Solving Skills
Guidance and Mentoring
Program Management for Social
Enterpreneurship
Honors-Awards
Best Employee and Performance of
the Year 2017 Award
Fully Funded Cultural Exchange
Scholarship
Hashoo Foundation Merit
Scholarship
Emerging Alumni Leader
Shakir Hussain Shakir
Leadership & Expertise in Student & Alumni Affairs →Student
Exchange & Counseling, Admissions & Scholarships → Global
Engagement → Institutional Partnerships → Humanitarian Services
→Youth, Policy, & Career Development
Islamabad, Islāmābād, Pakistan
Summary
I am a multitasking, result-driven and dynamic professional with
international exposure and a proven record of generating and
building professional relationships and institutional partnerships,
managing projects from concept to completion, designing student
counselling, career guidance, academic advising and, parents
and alumni engagement strategies, developing institutional and
departmental policies, planning training and skills development
programs, hiring team members, handling students services, leading
national and international admission and scholarship recruitments
and coaching individuals to success.
My skill set encompasses the ability to build cross-functional
teams, strategic planning, networking, effective communication,
community mobilization, recourse management and making
sound organizational decisions. I am culturally responsive, socially
adaptable and fine to work independently and in collaboration
with others. I am always eager to bring innovation, empathy and
congeniality to my workplace. My core values revolve around
embracing diversity, promoting inclusivity, upholding equity
and meritocracy, and ensuring fairness in all my personal and
professional interactions and assignments. Furthermore, I have a
longstanding dedication to serving society, particularly marginalized
and underprivileged communities, by generously and voluntarily
contributing my time, knowledge and expertise.
As an emerging leader, I recognize the importance of empowering
others, fostering open dialogue, embracing constructive criticism,
grooming future leaders, advocating for open-door policies,
and promoting a culture of positivity and a sense of belonging
within teams. In all my endeavours, I strive to leave a lasting
Page 1 of 6

-- 1 of 6 --

impact through my performance, sense of accountability, effective
coordination, and strong team-building and leadership skills.
Currently, I am working as the Head of the Department of Student
Affairs & Global Engagement in a multinational educational
endeavour (Pak-Turk Maarif International Schools and Colleges)
of the Turkish Government in Pakistan. I am mandated to work for
the social, emotional, psychological, career, academic, personal
and professional development and well-being of over 13000
students in 27 campuses in 10 major cities across the country and
to connect them with admission, scholarship, internship, job, and
skills development programs and opportunities within the country
and abroad. I am leading a team of over 20 dedicated Student
Counselling Officers.
Experience
PAK-TURK Maarif International Schools and Colleges
Head Department of Student Affairs | Counselling | Career
Development & Global Engagement |
March 2020 - Present (6 years 7 months)
Islamabad, Islāmābād, Pakistan
Working Domains
• Management of Student Affairs
• Students Career Development Activities
• Student Internships
• Skills Development Programs
• Summer School Programs
• Guidance and Counselling Services
• Global Engagement and Partnerships
• National and International Admissions and Scholarships
• Alumni Engagement
• Policy Development and Implementation
• Training and Development
• Collaboration with International Partners
• International Exams Administration Including SAT, TR-YOS
• Complaints Management Cell
• Briefings and Reports
• Departmental Hiring Management
Page 2 of 6

-- 2 of 6 --

Lahore University of Management Sciences
Senior Program Officer Global Partnerships & Student Exchange -
Office of International Affairs
April 2018 - March 2020 (2 years)
Lahore, Pakistan
Responsibilities:
1. Explore, assess, initiate and establish linkages and partnerships with
top ranking global universities and negotiate financial deals and cost-free
opportunities for students, staff and faculty
2. Create and foster international activities that support teaching, learning,
research, and engagement in the university
3. Expand and strengthen the global outreach of LUMS by preparing and
guiding its internationalization strategy both short-term and long-term
including serving as focal person for global coordination and campus
Internationalization.
4. Mentor and counsel students regarding academic, financial, and personal
matters involved in the exchange process
5. Develop, adopt, enforce, oversee, and implement policies and procedures
on a range of student affairs and issues
6. Ensure completion of all necessary documentation, communication and
coordination with all relevant internal and external stakeholders to ensure
successful program implementation and development.
7. Facilitate, organize and manage exchange program interviews and student
recruitments and open house sessions
8. Provide quick and accurate answers to requests for information through
emails, phone calls and social media
9. Explore, support and disseminate scholarship opportunities and other
initiatives that open more doors for students, enhance their global learning and
ensure their success in today's globalized world.
10. Design and conduct welcoming and departure orientations for incoming
international and outgoing local students
11. Engage exchange alumni and utilize their experience and exposure to
strengthen and improve exchange programs
12. Develop brochures, content for digital media and university website about
exchange programs and achievements
13. Develop surveys for exchange and alumni to record their feedback and
experience
14. Maintain an active presence of exchange programs and international office
on social media
Page 3 of 6

-- 3 of 6 --

Hashoo Foundation
3 years 2 months
Training Officer Skills Development
January 2017 - March 2018 (1 year 3 months)
Lahore Pakistan
1. Plan and implement the self-designed and donor funded skills development
training programs
2. Develop training material including training manuals, schedule and work
plan.
3. Monitors skills development trainings and coordinate with resource persons/
facilitators.
4. Effectively monitor the training staff and training resources to ensure
learning and development
5. Coordinate and communicate with donors about new youth and women
empowerment trainings and projects
6. Plan, design and execute demand driven trainings, youth and women
empowerment projects, capacity building trainings and alumni engagement
strategies, activities and annual get-together plans
7. Lead and manage marketing and mobilization campaigns to attract and
select the best pool of trainees, student admissions and counselling, social
media pages and official groups of the organization, job placements fairs,
graduation ceremonies and other signature events of the organization
8. Manage and conduct personal and professional grooming skills
development sessions for trainees, training orientation sessions and one to
one mock interviews of trainees to better prepare them for job hunting
9. Develop questionnaires/forms and format for regular data collection aimed
at efficient monitoring and effective implementation of projects and programs.
10. Conduct meeting with skills development Program staff, develop
action plans, manage follow ups and disseminate information to related
stakeholders.
11. Develop financial budget and ensure its effective and efficient
management.
12. Strengthen the linkages with employers and build partnerships for job
placement and employability
13. Compile project completion reports for donors and senior management,
press releases about different events and international donor visits, success
stories of trainees and alumni and submit them to the central communication
department, monthly, quarterly and annual progress reports and submit them
to central monitoring department
Page 4 of 6

-- 4 of 6 --

Admission and Counseling Officer
February 2015 - May 2017 (2 years 4 months)
As admission and Counseling Officer my role was to:
• Explain about admission procedures and courses offered to the prospective
students and their parents through phone calls, emails and face to face
meetings.
• Participate in the decision-making process for student admissions based on
foundation policies and guidelines.
• Analyze the applications of prospective students based on standard
admission policies.
• Interview students to understand their objectives and background.
• Provide clarifications to student’s queries in a professional manner.
• Follow-up with students for any enquiries through direct meetings, live chat,
phone calls and emails.
• Advice students about the programs offered, admission procedure, eligibility
and costs involved.
• Provide assistance with recruitment activities, student interviews, admission
publications, and information sessions.
• Review the student applications for the eligibility and academic qualification.
• Arrange orientation programs, educational workshops and graduation
ceremonies for students.
• Provide support to prepare admission related presentations
• Develop innovative communication strategies, recruitment strategies and
enrolment plans in coordination with senior management to attract and enroll
more students.
• Participate in all recruitment events, field mobilization activities, open houses,
school fairs, information sessions, exhibitions, school visits and off-campus
events.
• Maintain a database of student information, telephone logs and student
feedbacks in order to generate student reports for management whenever
required.
Foreign Education Services Pakistan
Educational Counseling Officer
June 2014 - February 2015 (9 months)
Cantt Lahore
As Education Counseling Officer, my core responsibilities were to guide,
counsel and motivate students to pursue their careers and dreams from world
class universities around the globe especially in the developed countries. I was
specially looking after the recruitment process for USA and Canada. Also, it
Page 5 of 6

-- 5 of 6 --

was my task to cover some official reports and write agreements for different
universities.
Education
Troy University
Cultural Exchange Program , Leadership · (2013 - 2013)
Government College University (GCU), Lahore
Bachelor's Degree (Honors) · (2010 - 2014)
Aga Khan Higher Secondary School, Gilgit
High School Diploma, Engineering · (April 2004 - May 2009)
Page 6 of 6

-- 6 of 6 --

